# Arkform

Arkform was built to make building forms a lot faster and provide a smoother development experience. Managing state and validating user input can be a pain. Built with DX in mind Arkform attemps to make this a breeze with a HTML native feel to the ui. 

Arkform is built on top of [Arktype](https://arktype.io), a great runtime validation library. Arktype provides a powerful set of features that mimic the native [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) syntax. 

# Arkform input

<ark-input />


## Overview

The majority of what you'll be using forms for is basic text input. Arktype makes it easy to validate your primitive user inputs. More information on the Arktype primitive validation can be found [here](https://arktype.io/docs/primitives).

## Validation

Validation is often the most tedious thing to set up when building from scratch and form libraries often take control away when giving form valiadation. Arkform aims to be a zero cost abstraction built with DX center stage.

Validators can be passed into the `ark` prop of the `<ark-input />` component or any of its wrappers as shown below. Please visit [Arktype] for more information on validators. The `ark` prop accepts a string or an array of strings.

```html
<ark-input ark="string.email" />
<ark-input ark="string > 0" />
<ark-input ark="string.uuid.v4" />
<ark-input ark="string.url"/>
<ark-input ark="number < 500"/>
<ark-input ark="string.NaN"/>
<ark-input ark="string.Infinity"/>

<ark-input :ark="['string > 0', 'string.alphanumeric']" />
```


oh and it takes regex too!

```html
<ark-input ark="/^\s*\S+(?:\s+\S+)+\s*$/" />
```

When a form is submit using `<ark-submit />` these validators will be checked and will throw an error if they do not meet the spec.

```html
<ark-form v-model="output" :submit="myFunction">
    <ark-input name="email" ark="string.email"/>
    <ark-submit>Submit</ark-submit>
</ark-form>
```

This will display any errors to the user and only run the given function on success.


## First Form

This is the basis of all the form logic used by arkform. All forms must be inside of one of these tags.

```html
<ark-form />
```

This is the simplest form we can make. But more is going on than meets the eye

```html
<ark-form>
    <ark-input name="message" />
</ark-form>
```
This form will render a simple form input and a label. By default the label will be the same as the name.

Inputs can take certain custom components. For example, you can pass a label or a help component that will be rendered.

```html
<ark-form>
    <ark-input name="message">
        <ark-label>A custom label:</ark-label>
        <ark-help>Please input a message</ark-help>
    </ark-input>
</ark-form>
```

Ark inputs expose a their state to be used. 

```html
<ark-input v-model="state" />
```
